# Volatility Breakout Strategy

Based on the data of two U.S firm stocks (Amazon and Apple) for the past 10 years, codes in this repository execute backtesting that incorporates both the volatility breakout strategy and the same investment strategy taking into account the moving average (MA), and they present the rate of returns, the cumulative returns, and drawdowns according to these two different strategies. They also convert these numerical results into both csv and excel files, and they visualize the cumulative returns and drawdowns by using graphs. Lastly, the best_k_value.py file contains codes to determine the k value (ranging from 0.0 to 1.0) that results in the highest cumulative return.

Briefly explaining, the volatility breakout strategy first obtains the range of fluctuation by subtracting the lowest price of a certain stock from its highest price on a given day and multiplies it by k value. When the price of the stock increases beyond the open price in addition to the calculated value, the strategy buys the stock and sells it at its closing price.

The volatility breakout strategy often references the moving average as one of the determinants to make buying decisions. Codes in backtest_Amazon.py and backtest_Apple.py files contain an additional conditional statement that the open price of a given day must be higher than the moving average to buy a certain stock. Put differently, consideration of the moving average increases the safety level of an investment by preventing investors from making buying decisions when the open price is lower than the moving average (which indicates that there might be a potential risk of a decrease in the stock price.
